The HyperShare smart contract is an exclusive feature created by HyperCycle to manage the value and revenue generated by an activated HyperCycle Computation Node for all the parties involved in running the Node.

It is a way to operate a HyperCycle Computation Node as a group within our AI Compute network using a fully decentralised method relying on governance, revenue sharing and shareholding via the usage of what we call the S-Tokens and R-Tokens.

# Video Tutorial

Along with this guide, we will also deploy a complete Video Tutorial on our [Youtube channel](#), where Dr. Robert Moir himself accompanies you through all the steps that are detailed below.

We also want to underline the huge amount of collaborative efforts that were necessary to present those processes in a simple user journey form, embodied in one single tool, as we all know how complex HyperCycle’s technology is and how important it is now to onboard everyone into our internet of AI.

Let’s begin!

## I. Marrying your HyPC with your Node license to create your HyperShare

The first mandatory step in activating your Node on the HyperCycle network is realizing the “marriage” between your HyPC tokens and your Node license, to create your Node’s unique identity using the CHyPC container. While those technical terms have been already described in the two whitepapers rather extensively, we’ll keep it very simple here: let the wizard guide you through how to marry your license to your tokens by creating a HyperShare in a few simple steps.

### A. Connecting to the dApp and using the Share Creation Wizard

1. Go to [dapp.hypc.ai/shares](dapp.hypc.ai/shares) and connect to the dApp with your MetaMask wallet on the Ethereum network.
2. There, you’ll see a list of the HyperShares already created by people with the Share Creation Wizard and also a button using this name where you’ll just have to click on.

### B. Marriage to create the HyperShare for your Node

#### Step 1: Node license selection

- Once in the Wizard, you’ll see your Node licenses already present in your wallet listed on the dropdown.
- As a reminder, Node licenses can have various degrees of “levels,” requiring specific amounts of HyPC in order to create your share. Specifically, 1,024 HyPC tokens per Node instance contained in the License.

Ensure you own enough HyPC tokens in your wallet to continue with the wizard, or it will guide you to available platforms where you can acquire more tokens.

Refer to this board to verify if you have the required HyPC amount depending on your Node license level.

For this guide, we’ll proceed with the HyperShare creation for a Level 10 Node license.

1. After verifying, select the Node license you would like to activate with your HyPC tokens and click **Next**.
2. Then, click **Approve License** to approve the deposit of your license to the HyperShare contract.

#### Step 2: Using the CHyPC NFT pointer

- If you do not own the CHyPC already, the Wizard will detect it and automatically guide you to convert your HyPC tokens into it. If you already own a CHyPC at this level, you can skip this step.

Otherwise:

1. Click on **Approve your HyPC**.
2. Once confirmed, click on **Obtain CHyPC token**.

Now, select the CHyPC you have created (Level 10 in this example) and click **Next**.

#### Step 3: Creating the HyperShare

You’ve now arrived at the step where you can create the HyperShare! The main principle here is to allow the HyperShare contract to create the marriage certificate between your CHyPC and your Node license.

To achieve this, follow the simple steps as shown in the wizard:

1. **Approve License** to allow the deposit of your Node license to the HyperShare.
2. **Approve CHyPC** to allow the deposit of the CHyPC to the HyperShare.
3. Finally, click on **Marriage** to marry the two!

Congratulations, you’ve now created the HyperShare for your Node!

---

## II. Setting up your HyperShare using the wizard

The Share Creation Wizard allows you to go beyond just marrying your HyPC with your Node license. It lets you pre-configure the parameters of your share by choosing how you’d like to distribute the R- and S-Tokens associated with your newly created HyperShare.

Your new HyperShare gives you ownership of two kinds of tokens:

- **Ownership or S-tokens**, representing voting shares of the HyperShare.
- **Revenue or R-tokens**, representing rights to withdraw revenue accumulated from deploying your HyperShare on the HyperCycle network.

If you need to distribute either S-tokens to other part-owners of your Share, or R-tokens to distribute future revenue with beneficiaries tied to the HyperShare’s activity on the network, you may send tokens to addresses of your choice now.

_Note:_ These steps are optional. You can choose to do this later by clicking on **Skip this step for now**.

However, if you wish to proceed:

- Copy and paste the Ethereum wallet address you wish to send the R and/or S tokens to, and click **Continue**.

### Default HyperShare contract characteristics

#### Current HyperShare Wizard characteristics:

- The current HyperShare Wizard is pre-configured to reserve 30% of the R-tokens inside the HyperShare contract as revocable R-tokens, used to distribute revenue to parties that should not permanently own the R-tokens (such as hardware operators). In a future update, you will be able to configure temporary ownership of these tokens through a voting process, where the number of votes is determined by S-token ownership.

---

## III. Quick presentation of the Node Management Page

After completing the previous steps, the Share Creation Wizard will direct you to the Node Manager page. This allows you to configure how the HyperShare is tied to the activity of your Node.

_Note:_ This page will undergo many updates soon, allowing you to manage the HyperShare and its direct beneficiaries more efficiently, with tools like Deployment, Messaging, and Governance.

For now, the current page displays basic data such as:

- HyperShare Status
- CHyPC ID
- License ID
- Operator Address (the address allowed to manage the HyperShare)
- Share Number

It will also display the amount of S and R Tokens under your management before distribution.

In our example, where we created a HyperShare for a 1-Node, the page will display:

- 1,024 S-Tokens
- 716 R-Tokens
